Vertx web api service post (#298)
vert-x3/vertx-web-site: src/site/blog/posts/2018-10-15-vertx-web-api-service.md

    Throwable exception = ar.cause();
  }
});
```

The `OpenAPI3RouterFactory` provides an easy way to create a specification compliant Router, but it doesn't provide a mechanism to decouple the business logic from your operation handlers. In a Vert.x typical application, when you receive a request to your router, you forward it to an event bus endpoint that performs some actions and sends the result back to the operation handler. Vert.x Web API Service simplifies that integration between Router Factory and Event Bus with a new code generator. The final result is a loose coupling between the Web Router logic and your request handling business logic.

## Let's start with web api services!

To use `vertx-web-api-service` you need to add this imports to your pom file:

```xml
<dependency>
  <groupId>io.vertx</groupId>
  <artifactId>vertx-codegen</artifactId>
  <version>3.6.0</version>
  <classifier>processor</classifier>
</dependency>
<dependency>
  <groupId>io.vertx</groupId>
  <artifactId>vertx-web-api-service</artifactId>
  <version>3.6.0</version>
</dependency>
```

We will proceed in this order:

1. Model the service interface

> 2. Rewrite it to work with web api services

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Rewrite it to work with Web Api Services
```

3. Implement the service

> 4. Mount the service on event bus

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Mount the service on the event bus
```

5. Use the router factory to build a router with handlers that connects to our event bus services

## Model your service

> Let's say that we want to model a service that manages all operations regarding transactions CRUD. An example interface for this asynchronous service could be:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's say that we want to model a service that manages all operations regarding CRUD transactions. An example interface for this asynchronous service could be:
```

```java
public interface TransactionsManagerService {
  void getTransactionsList(List<String> from, Handler<AsyncResult<List<Transaction>>> resultHandler);
  void addTransaction(Transaction transaction, Handler<AsyncResult<Transaction>> resultHandler);
  void updateTransaction(String transactionId, Transaction transaction, Handler<AsyncResult<Transaction>> resultHandler);
  void removeTransaction(String transactionId, Handler<AsyncResult<Integer>> resultHandler);
}
```

> For each operation, we have some parameters, depending on the operation, and a callback (`resultHandler`) that should be called when the operation succeed or fail.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For each operation, we have some parameters, depending on the operation, and a callback (`resultHandler`) that should be called when the operation succeeds or fails.
```

> As you already saw on `vertx-service-proxy`, you can define an Event Bus service with a Java interface similar to the one we just saw and then annotate it with `@ProxyGen`. This annotation will generate a _service handler_ for the defined service that can be plugged to the event bus with `ServiceBinder`. `vertx-web-api-service` works in a very similar way: you need to annotate the Java interface with `@WebApiServiceGen` and it will generate the service handler for the event bus.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With [Vert.x Service Proxy](https://vertx.io/docs/vertx-service-proxy/java/), you can define an event bus service with a Java interface similar to the one we just saw and then annotate it with `@ProxyGen`. This annotation will generate a _service handler_ for the defined service that can be plugged to the event bus with `ServiceBinder`. `vertx-web-api-service` works in a very similar way: you need to annotate the Java interface with `@WebApiServiceGen` and it will generate the service handler for the event bus.
```

Let's rewrite the `TransactionsManagerService` to work with Web API Service:

```java
import io.vertx.ext.web.api.*;
import io.vertx.ext.web.api.generator.WebApiServiceGen;

@WebApiServiceGen
public interface TransactionsManagerService {
  void getTransactionsList(List<String> from, OperationRequest context, Handler<AsyncResult<OperationResponse>> resultHandler);
  void addTransaction(Transaction body, OperationRequest context, Handler<AsyncResult<OperationResponse>> resultHandler);
  void updateTransaction(String transactionId, Transaction body, OperationRequest context, Handler<AsyncResult<OperationResponse>> resultHandler);
  void removeTransaction(String transactionId, OperationRequest context, Handler<AsyncResult<OperationResponse>> resultHandler);

  // Factory method to instantiate the implementation
  static TransactionsManagerService create(Vertx vertx) {
    return new TransactionsManagerServiceImpl(vertx);
  }
}

```

First of all, look at the annotation `@WebApiServiceGen`. This annotation will trigger the code generator that generates the event bus handler for this service. Each method has the same two last parameters:

> * `OperationRequest context`: This data object contains the headers and the parameters of the request

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `OperationRequest context`: this data object contains the headers and the parameters of the HTTP request
```

> * `Handler<AsyncResult<OperationResponse>> resultHandler`: This callback accepts an `OperationResponse` data object that will encapsulate the body of the result, the status code, the status message and the headers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `Handler<AsyncResult<OperationResponse>> resultHandler`: this callback accepts an `OperationResponse` data object that will encapsulate the body of the result, the status code, the status message and the headers
```

> The generated handler receives only the `OperationRequest` data object and extracts from it all operation parameters. For example, when the router receives a request at `getTransactionsList`, it sends to `TransactionsManagerService` the `OperationRequest` containing the `RequestParameters` map. From this map, the service generated handler extracts the `from` parameter. So **operation parameters name should match method parameters name**. When you want to extract the body you must use `body` keyword. For more details, please check the documentation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The generated handler receives only the `OperationRequest` data object and extracts from it all operation parameters. For example, when the router receives a request at `getTransactionsList`, it sends to `TransactionsManagerService` the `OperationRequest` containing the `RequestParameters` map. From this map, the service generated handler extracts the `from` parameter. 

Therefore **operation parameters names should match method parameter names**.

When you want to extract the body you must use `body` keyword. For more details, please refer to the [documentation](https://vertx.io/docs/vertx-web-api-service/java/).
```

## Implement the service

Now that you have your interface, you can implement the service:

```java
public class TransactionsManagerServiceImpl implements TransactionsManagerService {

  private Vertx vertx;

  public TransactionsManagerServiceImpl(Vertx vertx) {  this.vertx = vertx;  }

  @Override
  public void getTransactionsList(List<String> from, OperationRequest context, Handler<AsyncResult<OperationResponse>> resultHandler){
    // Write your business logic here
    resultHandler.handle(Future.succeededFuture(OperationResult.completedWithJson(resultJson)));
  }

  // Implement other operations

}
```

> Check the `OperationResult` documentation to look at various handy methods to create a completed response.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Check the `OperationResult` documentation to look at various handy methods to create a complete response.
```

## Mount the Service

Now that you have your service interface and implementation, you can mount your service with `ServiceBinder`:

```java
ServiceBinder serviceBinder = new ServiceBinder(vertx);

TransactionsManagerService transactionsManagerService = TransactionsManagerService.create(vertx);
registeredConsumers.add(
  serviceBinder
    .setAddress("transactions_manager.myapp")
    .register(TransactionsManagerService.class, transactionsManagerService)
);
```

## And the Router Factory?

> Now your service is up and running, but we need to connect it to the `Router` built by `OpenAPI3RouterFactory`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The service is up and running, but we need to connect it to the `Router` built by `OpenAPI3RouterFactory`:
```

  if (openAPI3RouterFactoryAsyncResult.succeeded()) {
    OpenAPI3RouterFactory routerFactory = openAPI3RouterFactoryAsyncResult.result();
    // Mount services on event bus based on extensions
    routerFactory.mountServicesFromExtensions(); // <- Pure magic happens!
    // Generate the router
    Router router = routerFactory.getRouter();
    server = vertx.createHttpServer(new HttpServerOptions().setPort(8080));
    server.requestHandler(router).listen();
    // Initialization completed
  } else {
    // Something went wrong during router factory initialization
  }
});
```

In our spec example we added an extension `x-vertx-event-bus` to each operation that specifies the address of the service. Using this extension, you only need to call `OpenAPI3RouterFactory.mountServicesFromExtensions()` to trigger a scan of all operations and mount all found service addresses. For each operation that contains `x-vertx-event-bus`, the Router Factory instantiates an handler that routes the incoming requests to the address you specified.

This is one of the methods you can use to match services with router operation handlers. Check the documentation for all details.

> ## And now?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## More examples
```

> Check out the complete example in [vertx-examples repo](https://github.com/vert-x3/vertx-examples/tree/master/vertx-web-api-service-example)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Check out the complete example in [vertx-examples repo](https://github.com/vert-x3/vertx-examples/tree/master/vertx-web-api-service-example).
```
